---
title: "DNS 101"
date: 2018-11-16T12:02:29+13:00
draft: true
Categories: ["aws-training"]
---
DNS 101 generic topics. Introductory topic.
<!--more-->

what is DNS?
DNS is used to convert domain names to an IP address. It is used by computers to identify each other. It comes in 2 forms, IPv4 and IPv6. IPv6 is created to solve the depletion issue of the IPv4. IPv4 is a 32-bit field while IPv6 is 128-bit.

top level domains
the last word in a domain name represents the top level domain while the second word is the second level domain name. could not be true, it depends on the domain name.

top level domain names: .com, .edu, .gov
second level domain names is a bit tricky, given the example .com.au. the top level domain name would be .com while the second level is .au.

how this is controlled?
there is an organization, Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) [https://www.iana.org/domains/root/db] where they control the domain names. There is a root zone database which is a database of all available top level domains. Domain registrars will make sure that all names in a given domain name needs to be unique and not duplicated. A registrar (godaddy, aws, etc) is an authority that can assign domain names directly under one or more top-level domains. These unique domains are registered with InterNIC which is an ICANN service and each domain is registered in a central database known as WhoIS database.

Start Of Authority Record (SOA)
all DNS has a SOA. SOA stores information about the name of the server that supplied the data for the zone, the admin of the zone, current version of the data file, default number of seconds for th TTY (time-to-live) file on resource records

NS Records
NS stands form Name Server records which is used by the top level domain servers to direct traffic to the Content DNS server which contains the authoritative DNS records. See notebook for the flow.

A Records
An "A" record is the fundamental type of DNS record. A stands for Address, it is used by a computer to translate the name of the domain to an IP address. See notebook for the flow.

TTL
Length of time in seconds that a DNS record is cached on either the Resolving Server or the user's own local PC. The lower the TTL, the faster changes to DNS records take to propage to the whole internet.

CNAMES
Canonical Name (CNAME) can be used to resolve one domain name to another. It's the name before your domain name. Common CNAMEs would be www, mobile, etc.

Alias Records
Used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to ELB, CF distributions or S3 buckets that are configured as websites. They work like a CNAME record in a way that you can map one DNS name to another target DNS name. CNAMEs can't be used for naked domain names (zone apex record). Naked domain name is something like example.com. You can't have a CNAME for http://acloud.guru, it must be either an A record or an Alias.  It can save you time because AWS Route53 automatically recognizes changes in the record sets that the alias resource record set refers to. See notebook for example. For example, suppose example.com alias record points to ELB DNS name, if the IP address of the load balancer changes, then Route53 will automatically reflect those changes for example.com without any changes to the hosted zone.

MX Records
Email records

PTR Records
A way for doing reverse lookups

TIPS:
- ELBs do not have a pre-defined IPv4 addresses; you resolve to then using a DNS name. What happens is if you have a naked domain name like example.com that you want to point to your ELB then you need to create an Alias record and that would point to the DNS name of your load balancer.
- Given a choice, always choose an Alias record over a CNAME

QUESTIONS:
- What is a hosted zone?
